Throughout history, mankind has been in a constant struggle for freedom,
men have fought for freedom of religion, freedom of speech, freedom of the press,
and freedom from bondage and slavery.
Man's perception of freedom is shaped by his environment,
his personal situation, and even his age.
While growing up, I remember the boys in my neighborhood getting together
on the final day of summer vacation to enjoy what we called our last day of freedom baseball game.
We called it that because school started the next day.
But this matter of freedom is not a game.
Our view of freedom is a matter of life and death.
No matter what our personal feelings or needs are regarding freedom,
we must recognize one fundamental fact.
Basically, there are only two kinds of freedom.
True freedom from Jehovah and false freedom that is offered by Satan and his world.
Every person must make a choice between these two freedoms.
Let's consider what each of these freedoms represents and how our choice affects our prospect for eternal life.
Please open your Bibles to Matthew 7.
We're going to read verses 13 and 14.
And here we read an illustration that Jesus gave in the Sermon on the Mount.
And in the illustration, he speaks about two gates and two roads.
And this also relates to the two freedoms that we're discussing this morning.
Matthew 7 verses 13 and 14.
He said, go in through the narrow gate because broad is the gate and spacious is the road leading off into destruction.
And many are going in through it.
Whereas narrow is the gate and cramped the road leading off into life.
And few are finding it.
At first glance, this spacious road may appear to be the road to true freedom.
Why? Because it's easy to travel.
Travelers on this road can go where they please, think as they please, live as they please.
There aren't any restrictions, no rules, no commitments.
And it's not surprising when we realize that one definition of freedom
is the ability or capacity to act without undue hindrance or restraint.
But this is the freedom that Satan and his world have to offer.
But is it real freedom?
Please open to Ephesians 2.
We're going to read verses 2 and 3.
This scripture describes the situation of people who choose to enter that broad gate
and then walk the spacious road.
Ephesians 2, verses 2 and 3, describes them this way.
In which you at one time walked according to the system of things of this world,
according to the ruler of the authority of the heir,
the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience.
Yes, among them we all at one time conducted ourselves in harmony with the desires of our flesh,
carrying out the will of the flesh and of our thoughts.
And we were naturally children of wrath just as the rest.
Did you notice that the ones walking on this road are not free at all?
They have a ruler, the ruler of the authority of the heir, Satan the devil,
and they also have a master.
They carry out the will of the flesh.
They are slaves of the flesh and its desires.
Please turn to 2 Peter 2 and we'll read verse 19.
These words confirm that Satan's promise of freedom is a false promise that results in slavery.
2 Peter 2 and verse 19 says while they are promising them freedom,
they themselves are slaves of corruption.
For if anyone is overcome by someone, he is his slave.
Satan's road is not the road of true freedom.
Also, it's not a free way.
In fact, it's a toll road.
And the toll to walk on this road is very heavy.
This permissive broad road takes its toll in sexually transmitted diseases, broken homes,
bodies and minds that are sick with drug and alcohol abuse, and acts of violence.
This toll is way too expensive just to walk on a dead end street that ends in destruction.
But now what about the other road that Jesus talked about?
He said the gate is narrow and the road is cramped.
Why does so few people choose to walk this road?
Primarily because very few people today want God's laws and principles to govern their lives.
True, this road has boundaries, but those boundaries help the ones who walk the road to avoid wrongdoing,
to fight wrong desires, to resist peer pressure in the fear of ridicule that may come as a result of walking this road.
The broad road is centered on self.
Self-indulgence, self-awareness, self-fulfillment, self-interest.
In contrast, this narrow road calls for self-control, self-denial, hard work,
and respect for authority.
But this is the road to true freedom.
Interestingly, some scriptures that talk about the freedom Jehovah gives may appear to be a little bit confusing.
For example, let's open to 1 Peter 2 and verse 16.
And as we read it, notice the contrasting expressions in this scripture.
1 Peter 2 verse 16.
It says, be as free people using your freedom, not as a cover for doing wrong, but as slaves of God.
How interesting that we can be free and be a slave at the same time.
For most people, the idea of becoming a slave to anyone or anything is not appealing.
However, there are positive aspects to being a slave.
Let's consider an example.
In Israel, a man who fell into debt could sell himself as a slave to pay off his debt.
But this wasn't a permanent arrangement.
He was to be freed after seven years or in a Jubilee year, whichever came first.
While serving as a slave, he was treated like a hired man.
He was protected from abuse.
And when he was released, his master gave him a gift to help him get back on his feet.
This was Jehovah's arrangement.
So it gives us a glimpse of what it's like to be a slave for Jehovah.
The life of an Israelite slave could be so secure that the slave chose to remain with his master for life.
The arrangement is described at Exodus chapter 21 verses 5 and 6 where it says,
but if the slave should insist and say, I love my master, my wife, and my sons.
I do not want to be set free.
His master must bring him before the true God.
Then he will bring him up against the door or the door post,
and his master will pierce his ear through with an all.
And he will be his slave for life.
We are like that slave.
Our love for Jehovah and our appreciation for the true freedom he gives
are so strong that we give our lives to him.
We identify ourselves as Jehovah's slaves, not by getting our ears pierced,
but by dedication and baptism.
When it comes to freedom, we almost make a choice.
Do we take the broad road of false freedom offered by Satan and his world?
Remember, it's literally a dead end street.
Or do we take the narrow road of true freedom that road is defined by God's righteous standards?
And this is the road that leads to everlasting life.
Even now we've been freed from fear of the future and the superstitious fear of death.
We've been freed from the pains that result from a lifestyle that ignores God's standards.
The freedom Jehovah provides will eventually give the human family all of the basic freedoms
that honest-hearted people long for today.
Freedom from fear, freedom from crime, freedom from hunger, from poverty,
pollution, sickness, and war.
May we continue to walk on the road of true freedom ourselves
and help others to find the true freedom that only Jehovah can give.